Scoping
-------

Several of the actions and verifications accept an optional hash of scoping
keywords, allowing you to be specific about what area of the page to operate
on. For example, you might have a page of contact information with HTML that
looks something like this:

    <div id="work">
      <label for="work_phone">Phone number</label>
      <input id="work_phone" type="text" />
    </div>

    <div id="home">
      <label for="home_phone">Phone number</label>
      <input id="home_phone" type="text" />
    </div>

Notice that both text inputs are labeled "Phone number", which means that if
you try to do this in your Rsel table:

    | Type | 123-456-7890 | into | Phone number | field |

Rsel will just fill in the first matching field that it finds (in this case,
the "work" phone number). If you needed to fill in the "home" phone number,
you'd have to refer to it by something less ambiguous, such as its `id`:

    | Type | 123-456-7890 | into | home_phone | field |

In this case, the `id` is short and intelligible, so it's not such a bad thing,
but it's fairly common for the `id` to be autogenerated, in which case it might
have some ridiculous-looking string like `form_customer_contact_field_home_phone_0`,
and you'd like to avoid that.

This is where scoping comes in. Scoping in Rsel allows you to be more specific
about which "Phone number" field you want to type into, by specifying the `id`
of its container:

    | Type | 111-222-3333 | into | Phone number | field | !{within:work} |
    | Type | 111-222-4444 | into | Phone number | field | !{within:home} |

Yeah I know, we're still using an `id` which could be annoyingly long, but if
there are a lot of fields in each container, you only need to keep track of one
`id` instead of several.

One important thing to note is that due to the way FitNesse Slim script tables
are evaluated, the scoping options hash must be added after a cell that
contains part of the method name. Cells in these tables must contain
alternating (function, argument) chunks; the way the above example breaks down is:

    | Type |              | into |              | field |                |
    |      | 111-222-3333 |      | Phone number |       | !{within:work} |

That is, this row calls the `type_into_field` method with three arguments
(`111-222-3333`, `Phone number`, `!{within:work}`). If you're using a function
call row that does not end with a function-name component, you need to include
a semicolon after the last function-name component, so all remaining cells will
be treated as arguments. These are valid alternative ways of calling the same function:

    | Type | 111-222-3333 | into field; | Phone number | !{within:work |
    | Type into field; | 111-222-3333 | Phone number | !{within:work |

The `SeleniumTest` method names were, for the most part, crafted so that the
alternating (function, argument) form reads the most naturally.

As of now, `within` is the only supported scoping keyword, but additional ones
are being considered. For example, it might be useful to scope to something
that is `below` another element (such as a heading), or `next_to` an element
(such as in a table row or list).

Next: [Customization](custom.md)

